In my preview, I am showing my first two steps.  First, I set the picture of people on the beach as the background.  I then opened a separate layer.  This layer is the picture of the garbage.  With this layer, I used the intelligent scissors tool to crop the background out of it.  I also cropped some of the garbage out so that the pile ended naturally instead of with sharp edges.  It took me a while to successfully do this.  I was trying to crop with the magic wand tool.  It did not work for me and, now I am thinking that that is not the purpose of the magic wand.  I am struggling a bit with remembering the distinct function of some of the tools.  When I was able to crop the picture, I make the mistake of cropping what I was trying to keep.  I then had to go back and invert my selection.  After I cropped out what I needed to, I scaled the garbage layer to make it smaller and put it in the bottom right corner.  Moving forward, I'd like to insert more images of trash on the sand and in the water.  I also want to add people playing games on the beach to create a sense of normalcy.  Furthermore, I want to make the image darker to give it a murky and eerie feel.  I am still thinking about what the picture should say.  I want the text to be short but powerful and possibly ironic.  I'd like to touch on how the way we are treating the environment now, soon we might be vacationing next to piles of garbage.  I still have a lot of tricks to learn on GIMP.  It took me longer than I expected to do what was probably very simple, so it is definitely still a learning process.
